Introduce Hubble HTTP v2 metrics and dashboards (#21181)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/observability/metrics.rst

``http``
~~~~~~~~

> Deprecated, use ``httpV2`` instead.

Reviewer: Should there be a note in Documentation/operations/upgrade.rst about this deprecation? Is this supposed to be removed in a future version?

Reviewer 2: Good catch, added a deprecation notice in `upgrade.rst`, removal is not planned for now.

- ``method`` is the HTTP method of the request/response.
- ``protocol`` is the HTTP protocol of the request, (For example: ``HTTP/1.1``, ``HTTP/2``).
- ``status`` is the HTTP status code of the response.
- ``reporter`` identifies the origin of the request/response. It is set to ``client`` if it originated from the client, ``server`` if it originated from the server, or ``unknown`` if its origin is unknown.

Options
"""""""

This metric supports :ref:`Context Options<hubble_context_options>`.

``httpV2``
~~~~~~~~~~

``httpV2`` is an updated version of the existing ``http`` metrics.

> These metrics should not be enabled at the same time as ``http``.

Reviewer 2: My understanding is that it is not possible to enable both `http` and `httpV2`, the second commit in the stack ("hubble: Ensure http and httpV2 metrics cannot both be enabled") implement the conflict detection.

Admittedly, the doc could be clearer about the incompatibility (i.e. state "_can not_ be enabled at the same time […]" rather than "_should not_ be enabled at the same time […]". Does that make sense?

The main difference is that ``http_requests_total`` and
``http_responses_total`` have been consolidated, and use the response flow
data.

Additionally, the ``http_request_duration_seconds`` metric source/destination
related labels now are from the perspective of the request. In the ``http``
metrics, the source/destination were swapped, because the metric uses the
response flow data, where the source/destination are swapped, but in ``httpV2``
we correctly account for this.

================================= =================================================== ========== ==============================================

> Name                              Labels                                              Default     Description

Reviewer 3: Very nit: The `Description` column header has an extra space prepended.

Reviewer 2: Good catch!

================================= =================================================== ========== ==============================================
``http_requests_total``           ``method``, ``protocol``, ``status``, ``reporter``  Disabled   Count of HTTP requests

> ``http_request_duration_seconds`` ``method``, ``reporter``                            Disabled   Quantiles of HTTP request duration in seconds

Reviewer 2: No problem Anna, the matching `http` section be updated as well correct?

response flow data, where the source/destination are swapped, but in ``httpV2``
we correctly account for this.

================================= =================================================== ========== ==============================================
Name                              Labels                                              Default     Description
================================= =================================================== ========== ==============================================
``http_requests_total``           ``method``, ``protocol``, ``status``, ``reporter``  Disabled   Count of HTTP requests
``http_request_duration_seconds`` ``method``, ``reporter``                            Disabled   Quantiles of HTTP request duration in seconds
================================= =================================================== ========== ==============================================

Labels
""""""

- ``method`` is the HTTP method of the request/response.
- ``protocol`` is the HTTP protocol of the request, (For example: ``HTTP/1.1``, ``HTTP/2``).
- ``status`` is the HTTP status code of the response.

> - ``reporter`` identifies the origin of the request/response. It is set to ``client`` if it originated from the client, ``server`` if it originated from the server, or ``unknown`` if it's origin isn't known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``reporter`` identifies the origin of the request/response. It is set to ``client`` if it originated from the client, ``server`` if it originated from the server, or ``unknown`` if its origin is unknown.
- ```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, also fixed in `http`
